# **cs61b**

## **Introduction**
The self-study solution for cs61b course 2018 summer version of UC Berkeley, which mainly focuses on topics about data structures. The content of this repository was uploaded to GitHub as a backup and a reference for anyone who interested in the course.
This repository contains all the code work of the course, including labs, homework, and projects (discussions and final are not included). All the code can pass the [autograding system](https://www.gradescope.com/) for this course with full credit. The following is the detailed information about each part of the repository

## **HW**
Homework part of the course, including 8 independent homework
- HW 0: A Java Crash Course
- HW 1: Packages, Interfaces, Generics, Exceptions, Iteration
- HW 2: Percolation
- HW 3: Hashing
- HW 4: 8 Puzzle
- HW 6: Boggle
- HW 7: Huffman Coding

## **Labs**
Lab work part of the course, including 13 independent lab works
- Lab 0: Getting Started
- Lab 1: Setting Up IntelliJ
- Lab 2: Higher-Order Functions, Lambda Expressions, Self Reference
- Lab 3: Unit Testing with JUnit, Debugging
- Lab 4: Project 1A Peer Code Review
- Lab 5: Getting Started on Project 2      
- Lab 6: Getting Started on Project 2, Phase 2
- Lab 9: Tree Maps vs. Hash Maps
- Lab 10: Priority Queues
- Lab 11: Graphs
- Lab 12: Merge Sort and Quick Sort
- Lab 13: Radix Sorts
- Lab 14: Fractal Sound


## **Projects**
4 projects that implement the theory of the course

### Project 0: NBody Simulation
A simulation of the movement of celestial bodies by applying the physical rules. You can put an arbitrary number of celestial bodies with arbitrary mass and velocities at arbitrary position at a 2D plane and simulate their movements. This project focuses on the basic use of Java.

### Project 1: Data Structures
This project focuses on the “Deque” (Double-Ended Queue) data structures. There are three parts of this project: Project 1A, Project 1B and Project 1 Gold. Project 1A implements the Deque using both lists and arrays. In project 1B focuses on writing our own tests for those data structures and will use the Double Ended Queue to solve the real-world problems such as Palindrome. Project 1 Gold is a Autograding System that using can automatically test and grading the data structure we implemented. It uses randomized enqueue and dequeue to test the correctness of the data structure.

### Project 2: CS61BYoG
Project 2 is a game-like explorable worlds that was random generated by a seed number. The world is composed of room of different sizes and hallways that connect them. Also, you can interact with the world by control an avatar to walk in this world. The random generalize algorithm mainly uses “divide and conquer”.

### Project 3: Bear Maps
This project is a map software that can render the pictures with an appropriate size according to the zoom in and zoom out of the user to compose the map of the Berkley city. This map software also implements Autocompletion and Search function with TRIE to enable a quick find destination. Another important feature is the Route Search that is enabled by A* algorithm.
